Basic eligibility 
You must: 

be aged 35 years or under when you apply (exceptions apply) 
hold an eligible visa 
have held a Student visa in the last 6 months 
have a recent qualification in a CRICOS-registered course
apply for your eligible stream (it is not possible to change streams after you apply) 
attach required evidence when you apply.
Post-Vocational Education Work stream 
This visa is for international students who have recently graduated with qualifications that are relevant to specific occupations Australia needs. It lets you live, study and work in Australia temporarily. 

You can work in Australia.
You can bring your family with you.  
You must hold a qualification relevant to your nominated  occupation on the   skilled occupation list .
This stream is for applicants meeting the Temporary Graduate visa study requirement with an associate degree, diploma or trade qualification only.
Stay 
Up to 18 months. 
Hong Kong and British National Overseas passport holders may stay for 5 years. 
Post-Higher Education Work stream 
This visa is for international students who have recently graduated with a degree from an Australian institution. It lets you live, work and study in Australia temporarily. 

You can work in Australia. 
You can bring your family with you. 
You need a recent degree in  CRICOS-registered course.  
This stream is for applicants meeting the  Temporary Graduate visa study requirement with a degree level qualification or higher.
Stay 
Usually between 2 and 3 years, depending on your qualification. 
Hong Kong and British National Overseas passport holders may stay for 5 years. 
Second Post-Higher Education Work stream 
This visa is for Temporary Graduates holding a Post-Higher Education Work, Post-Study Work or Replacement visa with a degree from an Australian institution located in a regional area. It lets you live, work and study in Australia temporarily. 

You can work in Australia 
You can bring your family with you  
Stay 
Between 1 and 2 years depending on: 

the regional location of the educational institution that you graduated from that led to the grant of your first Temporary Graduate visa 
the regional area that you live in as the holder of your Temporary Graduate visa in the Post-Higher Education Work, Post-Study Work or Replacement stream. 
Which stream should I apply for?
The qualification you use to meet the Temporary Graduate visa study requirement determines the stream you can apply for.

If you hold an associate degree, diploma or trade qualification, you should apply for the Post-Vocational Education Work stream. The qualification you use must be closely related to your nominated occupation on the Medium and Long-term Strategic Skills List (MLTSSL).

If your qualification is degree level or higher, you should apply for the Post-Higher Education Work stream.