Types of study covered
The student (subclass 500) visa allows you to study the following study types:

higher education
Vocational and Education Training (VET)
pathway courses
English Language Intensive Courses for Overseas Students (ELICOS)
primary and secondary school
secondary school exchange programs
postgraduate research
non-award courses (such as Study Abroad and Exchange semesters), and
international students sponsored by the Australian Government’s Department of Foreign Affairs (DFAT) or Defence.
You will need to enrol in a course at an Australian education or training provider first and then apply for a student visa after you have been issued a confirmation of enrolment (CoE) from the provider. For more information on applying for courses, visit the how to apply to study page.

Fees and processing time
From 1 July 2026, student visa fees are from AUD$2,500 per visa application* unless you are exempt. Australian Student visa processing times vary from person to person. Visa processing times are available on the Department of Home Affairs website. You can also get tips on how to improve your processing time.

*Prices are correct at July 2026.

Student visa conditions
Your Student visa comes with some important conditions. These include that you must:

notify your education or training provider of your residential address within 7 days of arriving in Australia
meet your course requirements, remain enrolled and maintain satisfactory attendance and course progression – tell your provider if you are sick or have any other issues that may affect your attendance
maintain adequate health insurance for visa holders for the whole of your stay in Australia, and
not over-stay your visa period in Australia.
You can check your visa status and full list of conditions any time at the Department of Home Affairs Visa Entitlement Verification Online system (VEVO).

Student visa work rights and restrictions
Student visa holders have working rights while in Australia. The number of work hours allowed on a Student visa in Australia is a maximum of 48 hours per fortnight. If you fail to comply with this visa condition, you may have your student visa cancelled.

This limit on work hours applies to all of the following times:

during study terms and semesters, including when exams are being held
before your course starts (unless you hold a different visa that permits you to work prior)
when you take another course that will count towards your main course during a term break – unless this is a mandatory requirement as listed under CRICOS for your main course.
At other times, you can work unlimited hours on a Student visa, as follows:

during scheduled course breaks
if your course was deferred or suspended in line with Standard 9 of the National Code of Practice for Providers of Education and Training to Overseas Students   
if you hold a valid visa and have completed your course as listed on your Confirmation of Enrolment
if your enrolment has been cancelled due to the default of your education provider and until you get a new enrolment and start that course.
Students in a Masters by Research or Doctoral degree program may work more than 48 hours per fortnight at any time during their studies, after the course has started.

Check the Visa Entitlement Verification Online system (VEVO) to see the work conditions that apply to you. 

International students are protected by Australia's workplace laws. Find out more on our Working in Australia page.

‘Course packaging’ on a Student visa (subclass 500)
You can apply to study two or more courses on your Student visa (subclass 500) where there is clear progression from one course to another. This is known as course packaging.

You will need a Confirmation of Enrolment (CoE) for each course you plan to take. The final course in your package will be your main (or ‘principal’) course of study.

For your visa application, the Department of Home Affairs will use your main course of study to work out what evidence of finances and English language you need to provide at lodgment. If you are not required to provide evidence of finances and English language at lodgment, the Department of Home Affairs may still ask you to provide this while they are processing your application. For more information visit the Document Checklist Tool.

If your Student visa application includes a package of courses, course gaps must be less than two calendar months. This gap can be longer (three to four months) if:

the first course finishes at the end of the Australian academic year (November), and
the following course starts at the beginning of the next academic year (February).
Standard visa grant periods apply to packaged courses. To find about more about the most popular pathway (or packaged study) options, visit our Pathways page.

Applications lodged outside Australia
Student visa applicants with a genuine intention to study in Australia are welcome to apply for a Student visa from offshore (outside Australia).

Applications lodged inside Australia
Holders of certain visas, including Visitor, Temporary Graduate, and Maritime Crew visas, cannot apply for Student visas while in Australia.

Students already in Australia on a Student visa can apply for an additional Student visa to complete further study.