With this visa you can
participate in an eligible course of study in Australia
travel in and out of Australia
work up to 48 hours a fortnight when your course of study or training is in session (students studying a masters by research or doctoral degree, and their families, have no work limit).
How long you can stay
This is a temporary visa to study up to 6 years. The type of course and its length will determine the length of stay

Primary school children starting their enrolment in years 1-4 will generally only be granted a Student visa for a maximum period of 3 years.  

Stay longer
To continue studying in Australia, you must apply for a new Student visa.

If your Student visa will expire before your graduation you might be eligible for a Visitor visa (subclass 600). You will need a letter from your education provider with the date of your graduation.

If you hold or held a Student visa and completed specific qualifications in Australia in the last six months, you might be eligible for a Temporary Graduate visa (subclass 485).

If you want to stay longer for other reasons, you must apply for a new visa that suits your circumstances. Explore your visa options.

Cost
The visa costs from AUD2,500.00 for the main applicant (concessions apply in limited circumstances).

There is also a charge for each family member who applies for the visa.

You might also have to pay other costs for:

health checks
police certificates
biometrics.
To work out what your visa will cost, use the Visa Pricing Estimator. The estimator does not take into account the other costs.

Cost concession
A lower visa cost applies to eligible Pacific Island and Timor-Leste citizens and eligible ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) citizens who lodge a valid Student visa application.

We will charge eligible applicants the lower visa application cost during the application process in ImmiAccount. We will recognise eligible applicants by the valid passport from the specified countries used in the application when they apply.

Family members are also eligible for the lower visa cost. We base this on the passport of the primary applicant (or visa holder who satisfies the primary visa criteria).

Pacific Island and Timor-Leste citizen primary applicants must hold a valid passport issued by one of the following countries:

Federated States of Micronesia
Fiji
Kiribati
Nauru
Palau
Papua New Guinea
Republic of the Marshall Islands
Samoa
Solomon Islands
Timor-Leste
Tonga
Tuvalu
Vanuatu
ASEAN citizens primary applicants must hold a valid passport issued by one of the following countries:

Brunei Darussalam
Cambodia
Indonesia
Lao Peoples Dem Republic
Malaysia
Myanmar
Philippines
Singapore
Thailand
Timor-Leste (note that the applicable cost for Timor-Leste citizens will be applied according to the cost for Pacific Island and Timor-Leste citizens rather than ASEAN citizens)
Vietnam
A lower visa cost also applies to valid Student visa applications in the Independent ELICOS and Non-Awards Sector.

Students affected by COVID-19
If you held a Student visa on or after 1 February 2020, you may be eligible to have your visa application fee waived so you can submit a further Student visa application. You may be eligible if you:

have deferred your study as you were unable to enter Australia due to travel restrictions
were forced to reduce to a part-time study load
were unable to complete your work-based training or placements.
This measure does not apply to students who are lodging a new Student visa application because of ordinary reasons, including if you have:

failed a course or unit of study
deferred for personal reasons
voluntarily reduced your study load.
You must apply for a Student visa to have your application for a fee waiver considered. Attach a completed Form 1545 COVID-19 Impacted Student (229KB PDF) from your education provider.

If you are applying for a fee waiver in Australia, we will not issue a Bridging visa automatically as the fee exemption must be checked first. You do not need to contact the department if you have applied for a fee waiver in Australia and have not been issued a Bridging visa immediately.

This waiver only applies to the visa application charge.

Include family
You can include family members when you lodge your visa application. For Student visas, your family member is:

your partner, or
your or your partner's dependent child who is unmarried and has not turned 18 years of age.
We cannot grant a Student visa to your child if they have turned 18 years at the time your visa is finalised. They need to apply for their own visa.

You must declare your family members in your Student visa application even if they do not plan to travel with you to Australia. If you do not do this, your family members will not be eligible for a Student visa to join you in Australia.

Your family members can also apply as a subsequent entrant (at a later time, separate from your application) in ImmiAccount.

Family members who apply for the visa must meet our requirements for health and character.

Check the annual school costs you will need to pay for any dependent children to go to either public or private schools in Australia.

For more information see ‘Evidence you have enough money for your stay’ section under Gather documents.

Apply from
You can be in or outside Australia when you apply for the visa and when we decide on your application. If you are in Australia you must hold an eligible substantive visa. For more information see ‘Have this visa if applying while in Australia’ under Eligibility.

Packaged courses
You will need to give us Confirmation of Enrolment (CoE) for each course. The last course you take as part of the course package is your main course of study. We use your main course of study to work out what financial and English language skills evidence you must give us.

If your visa application includes a package of courses, course gaps must be less than two calendar months, unless the first course finishes at the end of the standard academic year and the next course commences at the beginning of the standard academic year.

For example, the academic year generally ends in November and starts again in February the following year, three to four months is an acceptable gap between courses. 

Standard visa grant periods apply to packaged courses.

Processing times
Make sure you allow plenty of time to prepare your application. Applications can take longer to process during peak periods, so lodge well in advance of your course start date.

Your application can take longer to process if:

you do not fill it in correctly
you do not include all the documents we need or we need more information from you
it takes us time to verify your information.
Find out what you can do to help us process your application faster.

We can't process your application if you do not pay the correct visa application charge. We will tell you if this applies to you.

For more information about student visa processing times, see Student visa processing priorities.

Your obligations
You and your family must meet all visa conditions and follow Australian laws.

See which conditions will and might be attached to this visa.

Travel
You can travel outside Australia and return as many times as you want while the visa is valid.

The time you spend outside Australia does not extend the visa.

Visa label
We will digitally link your visa to your passport. You will not get a label in your passport.